There are a few issues that frequently emerge and lead to heated 
discussions.  The most recent flame-fest has prompted me to try
exposing some of the deeper issues that are seldom mentioned explicitly.
This is intended to be entertaining and thought provoking, as opposed
to argumentation.  

My perception of a codebase is as a "living thing", evolving, adapting
and hopefully surviving.  My personal bias is towards the ultimate 
survival of Rom or some derivative.

The FAQ format seems appropriate.

Q. What is a FAQ?
A. A FAQ is a "Frequently Aggravating Question"

Q. Why have the ROM authors put together and continued to support Rom?
A. Paraphrasing Brian Moore, "To advance the state of the art in Diku/Merc
   MUDs"

Q. What is most common ostensible motive to release a Rom derivative?
A. Rom has 4 but races, 4 classes and 60 levels, lacks color, OLC, detached 
   address to name resolution, and automated quest.  Most derivatives seem
   geared to add these popular features, to aid new Implementors in getting
   a leg up on running their mud.

Q. Does addressing the above issues do an iota to advance the state of ANY art?
A. No, not really.  These features are popular, and add value to a code base, 
   but their addition could fairly be called mere cosmetics and even a 
   hindrance to any significant improvement to the Rom code.  Lots of code 
   appears to have been added to Rom (though at what point in its evolution 
   I have not bothered to ascertain) which is redundant and probably not done 
   by a coder in posession of the "larger picture".  The more "crap" that's 
   added to the Rom code base before ancient demons are exorcised, the taller
   order it will be some day for someone to clean up, consolidate and make
   this code generally maintainable.

Q. Why are the Rom authors distressed by the release of code which to the
   unenlightened eye appears vastly superior to the Rom releases, while few
   releases even acknowledge, much less successfully address any of the 
   underlying problems inherent to "classic Rom", dilluting the pool of 
   coders working on Rom based projects so that the enrichment of the Rom 
   lineage ceases, much the way a succession of idiot bastard children would 
   diminish one's bloodline?
A. I don't have the slightest idea why.


Thanks,  Dennis Reichel
